Background:

Interacting with friends on a social networking service (SNS), such as Facebook,
Tumblr, and Instagram has become a rite of passage for teenagers around the world.
Having a relatively large amount of disposable income, these adolescents are a
coveted demographic for businesses hoping to sell snacks, beverages, electronics,
and hygiene products.

The many millions of teenage consumers using such sites have attracted the attention
of marketers struggling to find an edge in an increasingly competitive market. One
way to gain this edge is to identify segments of teenagers who share similar tastes,
so that clients can avoid targeting advertisements to teens with no interest in the
product being sold. For instance, sporting apparel is likely to be a difficult sell to
teens with no interest in sports.

Given the text of teenagers' SNS pages, we can identify groups that share common
interests such as sports, religion, or music. Clustering can automate the process of
discovering the natural segments in this population. However, it will be up to us
to decide whether or not the clusters are interesting and how we can use them for
advertising. Let's try this process from start to finish.



Data Collection:

For this analysis, we will use a dataset representing a random sample of 30,000 U.S.
high school students who had profiles on a well-known SNS in 2006. To protect
the users' anonymity, the SNS will remain unnamed. However, at the time the data
was collected, the SNS was a popular web destination for US teenagers. Therefore,
it is reasonable to assume that the profiles represent a fairly wide cross section of
American adolescents in 2006.



Data Attributes:

The data was sampled evenly across four high school graduation years (2006
through 2009) representing the senior, junior, sophomore, and freshman classes at
the time of data collection. Using an automated web crawler, the full text of the SNS
profiles were downloaded, and each teen's gender, age, and number of SNS friends
was recorded.

A text mining tool was used to divide the remaining SNS page content into words.
From the top 500 words appearing across all the pages, 36 words were chosen to
represent five categories of interests: namely extracurricular activities, fashion,
religion, romance, and antisocial behavior. The 36 words include terms such as
football, sexy, kissed, bible, shopping, death, and drugs. The final dataset indicates, for
each person, how many times each word appeared in the person's SNS profile.
