Background:

In order for a health insurance company to make money, it needs to collect more
in yearly premiums than it spends on medical care to its beneficiaries. As a result,
insurers invest a great deal of time and money in developing models that accurately
forecast medical expenses for the insured population.
Medical expenses are difficult to estimate because the most costly conditions are
rare and seemingly random. Still, some conditions are more prevalent for certain
segments of the population. For instance, lung cancer is more likely among smokers
than non-smokers, and heart disease may be more likely among the obese.
The goal of this analysis is to use patient data to estimate the average medical
care expenses for such population segments. These estimates can be used to create
actuarial tables that set the price of yearly premiums higher or lower, depending on
the expected treatment costs.



Data Source:

For this analysis, we will use a simulated dataset containing hypothetical medical
expenses for patients in the United States. This data was created for this book using
demographic statistics from the US Census Bureau, and thus, approximately reflect
real-world conditions.



Data Description:

The insurance.csv file includes 1,338 examples of beneficiaries currently enrolled
in the insurance plan, with features indicating characteristics of the patient as well as
the total medical expenses charged to the plan for the calendar year. 

The features are:
•	 age : An integer indicating the age of the primary beneficiary (excluding
those above 64 years, since they are generally covered by the government).
•	 sex : The policy holder's gender, either male or female.
•	 bmi : The body mass index (BMI), which provides a sense of how over- or
under-weight a person is relative to their height. BMI is equal to weight (in
kilograms) divided by height (in meters) squared. An ideal BMI is within the
range of 18.5 to 24.9.
•	 children : An integer indicating the number of children/dependents covered
by the insurance plan.
•	 smoker : A yes or no categorical variable that indicates whether the insured
regularly smokes tobacco.
•	 region : The beneficiary's place of residence in the US, divided into four
geographic regions: northeast, southeast, southwest, or northwest.
