#Background:

Winemaking is a challenging and competitive business that offers the potential
for great profit. However, there are numerous factors that contribute to the
profitability of a winery. As an agricultural product, variables as diverse as the
weather and the growing environment impact the quality of a varietal. The bottling
and manufacturing can also affect the flavor for better or worse. Even the way
the product is marketed, from the bottle design to the price point, can affect the
customer's perception of taste.

As a consequence, the winemaking industry has heavily invested in data
collection and machine learning methods that may assist with the decision science
of winemaking. For example, machine learning has been used to discover key
differences in the chemical composition of wines from different regions, or to
identify the chemical factors that lead a wine to taste sweeter.

More recently, machine learning has been employed to assist with rating the quality of
wine—a notoriously difficult task. A review written by a renowned wine critic often
determines whether the product ends up on the top or bottom shelf, in spite of the fact
that even the expert judges are inconsistent when rating a wine in a blinded test.

In this case study, we will use regression trees and model trees to create a system
capable of mimicking expert ratings of wine. Because trees result in a model that is
readily understood, this can allow the winemakers to identify the key factors that
contribute to better-rated wines. Perhaps more importantly, the system does not
suffer from the human elements of tasting, such as the rater's mood or palate fatigue.
Computer-aided wine testing may therefore result in a better product as well as
more objective, consistent, and fair ratings.


Data Source:

To develop the wine rating model, we will use data donated to the UCI Machine
Learning Data Repository ( http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml ) by P. Cortez, A.
Cerdeira, F. Almeida, T. Matos, and J. Reis. The data include examples of red and
white Vinho Verde wines from Portugal—one of the world's leading wine-producing
countries. Because the factors that contribute to a highly rated wine may differ
between the red and white varieties, for this analysis we will examine only the more
popular white wines.



Data Description:

The white wine data includes information on 11 chemical properties of 4,898 wine
samples. For each wine, a laboratory analysis measured characteristics such as
acidity, sugar content, chlorides, sulfur, alcohol, pH, and density. The samples were
then rated in a blind tasting by panels of no less than three judges on a quality scale
ranging from zero (very bad) to 10 (excellent). In the case of judges disagreeing on
the rating, the median value was used.
